---
title: Ship It! Build The Thing 
slug: shipIt
publishDate: 10 Aug 2025
description: You learn by doing, so start building & ship the thing.
---
<!-- Open Graph -->
<meta property="og:title" content="Ship It!  Build The Thing (and Learn)" />
<meta property="og:description" content="You learn by doing, so start building and ship the thing." />
<meta property="og:image" content="https://allos.dev/assets/allosDevLogo-1.webp" />
<meta property="og:url" content="https://allos.dev/blog/shipIt" />
<meta property="og:type" content="article" />

<!-- Twitter Card -->
<meta name="twitter:card" content="summary_large_image" />
<meta name="twitter:title" content="Ship It! Build the Thing! (and Learn)" />
<meta name="twitter:description" content="You learn by doing, so start building and ship the thing." />
<meta name="twitter:image" content="https://allos.dev/assets/allosDevLogo-1.webp" />

## Ship It!
Your target is to deploy your app so others can use it. Keep that target in mind and you will produce something.

### Keep It Simple
Keep it simple and don't worry about being perfect.  
Remember the old saying, <blockquote>"No one ever became perfect by doing nothing."</blockquote>
In other words, we often get so worried about what everyone else thinks and about being perfect that we never end up producing anything.

## Don’t Try To Find Creativity
Trying to achieve creativity is like searching for peace. You never get there. Instead, build something, anything and creativity will appear.  That's because just like happiness, creativity is a by-product.  Creativity is created by creating something. 

### Creativity Appears From Building Something
Creativity is often generated by trying to do something and failing, then altering your plans and then building something even better.  Creativity doesn't just just rise out of doing nothing. 

Eleanor Roosevelt said, <blockquote>Happiness is not a goal...it's a by-product of a life well lived."</blockquote>

## Work
The modern old lie that's getting a lot of followers is "Work is bad." <br> 
Work is not bad. Bad work is bad.<br>
Work that tears you down mentally & physically is bad.<br>
Great work -- work you believe in and are intrinsically motivated to do -- is the best thing in the world.

Work at learning by building something and you will find creativity and happiness as a by-product.

### What Are You Intrinsically Motivated To Do?
Do the thing that you want to do, because you want to do it.

I encourage you to stop thinking about if AI is going to do all the programming in the future and just start reading my book and following along and learning. 

If that is what you want to do.  

I wrote the book, because I like to know how things work and I like to discuss programming with like-minded people. 


